Address @cabo's review of -11 (#39)
core-wg/draft-dns-over-coap: draft-ietf-core-dns-over-coap.md

media type "application/dns-message" to be the mnemonic 553 — based on the port assignment of DNS.
This media type is defined as in {{-doh}} Section 6, i.e., a single DNS message encoded in the DNS on-the-wire format {{-dns}}.
Both DoC client and DoC server MUST be able to parse contents in the "application/dns-message" format.
For the purposes of this document, only OPCODE 0 (Query) is supported for DNS messages.
Future work might provide specitications and considerations for other OPCODE.

> A DoC server that receives a query with an unknown OPCODE SHOULD indicate in its response that it does not implement that opcode bye setting the response RCODE to 4, NotImp {{-dns}} (see also {{sec:resp-examples}}).

Reviewer: What is the exception to this SHOULD?

(I.e., why is that not a MUST?)

also:

```suggestion
A DoC server that receives a query with an OPCODE it does not implement SHOULD indicate this in its response by setting the response RCODE to 4, NotImp {{-dns}} (see also {{sec:resp-examples}}).
```

Author: > What is the exception to this SHOULD?
> 
> (I.e., why is that not a MUST?)

I don't think there is a normative binding to set the RCODE to a specific error by DNS. At least I cannot find that. Also, there could be other RCODEs possible, depending on the server implementation, e.g. ServFail (2), (e.g. if there are other errors in the message or elsewhere that make the server fail), NotAuth (9), if the DoC client is not authorized to communicate with the DoC server in any way.

Reviewer: OK, makes sense.
So let's get rid of 2119 language and state this as a fact, and qualify it.
See updated suggestion above.

The DoC client SHOULD set the ID field of the DNS header always to 0 to enable a CoAP cache (e.g., a CoAP proxy en-route) to respond to the same DNS queries with a cache entry.
This ensures that the CoAP Cache-Key (see {{-coap-fetch}} Section 2) does not change when multiple DNS queries for the same DNS data, carried in CoAP requests, are issued.

### Examples {#sec:req-examples}

The following example illustrates the usage of a CoAP message to
resolve "example.org. IN AAAA" based on the URI "coaps://\[2001:db8::1\]/". The
CoAP body is encoded in "application/dns-message" Content Format.
For better readability, we provide the payload in a human-readable format.
In the actual message, however, it would be encoded in the binary message format defined in {{-dns}}.

    FETCH coaps://[2001:db8::1]/
    Content-Format: application/dns-message
    Accept: application/dns-message

>     Payload (human-readable):

Reviewer: I would probably keep at least one DNS message around in both binary and readable form, so readers can find out how exactly the body looks like.

Author: Ok, I will put one replication with the query example (which is the first in the draft).

Author: See [8478567](https://github.com/core-wg/draft-dns-over-coap/pull/39/commits/847856778fd3b2cfa8b0e0ad198c02b082a3fdc3)

Author: (btw: the reason the binary representation is shorter below is because this little exercise of converting to dig revealed an error in the dump: there were two questions in the query, one for A, one for AAAA, see https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc9619/)

### Response Codes and Handling DNS and CoAP errors

A DNS response indicates either success or failure in the RCODE of the DNS header (see {{Section 4.1.1 of -dns}}).

> It is RECOMMENDED that CoAP responses that carry a parseable DNS response as defined in {{-dns}} use a "2.05 Content" response code.

Reviewer: We are not discussing the caching consequences, e.g., setting a good MaxAge.

Author: Will add a sentence on that.

Author: See 29797726751

CoAP responses using non-successful response codes MUST NOT contain a DNS response
and MUST only be used on errors in the CoAP layer or when a request does not
fulfill the requirements of the DoC protocol.

> Communication errors with an upstream DNS server (e.g., timeouts) MUST be indicated by including a DNS response with the appropriate RCODE in a successful CoAP response, i.e., using a 2.xx response code.

Reviewer: (Ditto MaxAge.)

Author: Dito

### Support of CoAP Caching {#sec:resp-caching}

For reliability and energy saving measures, content decoupling, i.e., en-route caching on proxies, takes a far greater role than it does, e.g., in HTTP.
Likewise, CoAP utilizes cache validation to refresh stale cache entries to reduce the amount of large response messages.
For cache validation, CoAP implementations regularly use hashing over the message content for ETag generation.
As such, the approach to guarantee the same cache key for DNS responses as proposed in DoH ({{-doh}}, section 5.1) is not sufficient and needs to be updated so that the TTLs in the response are more often the same regardless of query time.

The DoC server MUST ensure that any sum of the Max-Age value of a CoAP response and any TTL in the
DNS response is less or equal to the corresponding TTL received from an upstream DNS server.
This also includes the default Max-Age value of 60 seconds (see {{-coap}}, section 5.10.5) when no Max-Age option is provided.
The DoC client MUST then add the Max-Age value of the carrying CoAP response to all TTLs in a DNS response on reception and use these calculated TTLs for the associated records.

> The RECOMMENDED algorithm to assure the requirement for DoC is as follows:

Reviewer: as·sure | əˈʃʊr |
verb
1 [reporting verb] tell someone something positively or confidently to dispel any doubts they may have: 

```suggestion
The RECOMMENDED algorithm to meet the requirement for DoC is as follows:
```

This value might be 0, but if the DoC server knows the error will persist, greater values are also conceivable, depending on the projected duration of the error.
Same goes for DNS responses, that for any reason do not carry any records with a TTL.

### Examples {#sec:resp-examples}

The following example illustrates the response to the query "example.org. IN
AAAA record", recursion turned on. Successful responses carry one answer
record including address 2001:db8:1::1:2:3:4 and TTL 79689.
As in {{sec:req-examples}}, we use both a human-readable and binary form of the payload.

A successful response:

    2.05 Content
    Content-Format: application/dns-message
    Max-Age: 58719
    Payload (human-readable):
      ;; ->>Header<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 0
      ;; flags: qr rd ad; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 1, AUTHORITY: 0, ARCOUNT: 0

      ;; QUESTION SECTION:
      ;example.org.                 IN      AAAA
      ;; ANSWER SECTION:
      ;example.org.         79689   IN      AAAA    2001:db8:1::1:2:3:4

>     Payload (binary):

Author: Not sure (and @waehlisch backen me about this offline) if these additional binary is more confusing than helpful. What do you think, @cabo?

Author: I slept on it and I decided to remove them.

Author: No, I think as well that they are more useful for the examples than the hex dumps. I am just worried people would put this into their CoAP messages. But I hope, the sentence above and the parathesis `(human-readable)` make it abundantly clear that this is not the actual message format.

             1c 00 01 00 01 37 49 00 10 20 01 0d b8 00 01 00 [binary]
             00 00 01 00 02 00 03 00 04                      [binary]

When a DNS error—NotImp (RCODE = 4) in response to a DNS Update (OPCODE = 5) for "example.org" in this case—is noted in the DNS response, the CoAP response still indicates success.

    2.05 Content
    Content-Format: application/dns-message

>     Payload: 00 00 a8 84 00 01 00 00 00 00 00 00 07 65 78 61 [binary]

Reviewer: I can't easily check this change.
Is there a common pretty-printer for DNS messages that we could use?

Author: Asking around/Will search for one.

Author: There is no dedicated format in the sense of e.g. CBOR diagnostic notation (:wink:). The DNS experts I asked proposed to use some form of condensed `dig`-like formatting, as this is what everybody looks at these days.

Author: See 6561123

Mapping DoC to DoH
------------------
This document provides no specification how to map between DoC and DoH, e.g., at a CoAP-HTTP-proxy.

> In fact, such mapping is NOT RECOMMENDED:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In fact, such a direct mapping is NOT RECOMMENDED:
```

Rewriting the FETCH method ({{sec:queries}}) and the TTL rewriting ({{sec:resp-caching}}) as
specified in this draft would be non-trivial.
It is RECOMMENDED to use a DNS forwarder to map between DoC and DoH, as would be the case for
mapping between any other pair of DNS transports.

Considerations for Unprotected Use {#sec:unprotected-coap}
==================================

> The use of DoC without a security mode of CoAP is NOT RECOMMENDED.

Reviewer: We could be using the term NoSec mode (Section 9 of RFCs  7252).
(This is a "security mode", except that it has "No Security". :-)

Author: Mh, reading Section 9 of RFC 7252 again, the wording there makes it very DTLS-specific... And makes me think that arbitrarily picking the term “security mode” as an umbrella term for DTLS and OSCORE was a mistake. We did not use the term elsewhere in this document, so maybe just use “without any encryption”? Because in this particular case we _are_ talking about confidential communication here.

Reviewer: without confidentiality protection?

(you can encrypt, but still do it wrong)

{{Section 2.6 of -core-corrclar}} goes into more detail on what needs to be done
when those are resumed from a new endpoint.

When using unprotected CoAP (see {{sec:unprotected-coap}}), setting the ID of a DNS message to 0 as
specified in {{sec:req-caching}} opens the DNS cache of a DoC client to cache poisoning attacks
via response spoofing.
This document requires an unpredictable CoAP token in each DoC query from the client when CoAP is
not secured to mitigate such an attack over DoC (see {{sec:unprotected-coap}}).

> For confidential communication with DTLS or OSCORE the impact of a fixed ID on security is limited, as both

Reviewer: s/with/via/?

(communication "with" could be read as about the peer -- "let me communicate with XYZ today")

Author: ```suggestion
For confidential communication via DTLS or OSCORE the impact of a fixed ID on security is limited, as both
```
